all right today I'm going to plant a
gooseberry or gooseberry as some people
say
now generally groceries will grow
they're like a really quite a good sized
Bush actually so should give them a size
ratio of about two by two meters in
order to grow like get a good size the
gooseberries actually come out in summer
so they're deciduous bushes
it's obviously they drop all their
leaves and everything like that and
they're very fine almost varnish type
Bush so no real kind of main trunk
structure like a normal tree so I'm also
like to the large Bush so they really
respond well from pruning every winter
so I've got one but you can either put
them in the ground obviously or in a
very large pot now I haven't got either
at the moment so I'm just going to pop
mine up in a good-sized pot and I'll
keep it there just for one season and
then next year hopefully or in the
interim period if I can get something
more appropriate for it and it should be
fine so I'll just go through putting it
up and I'll grab everything okay
so I've got my pot got my gooseberry now
you can see the root system on this is
fairly long now if I put this in this
pot chances are this root is going to
just go round and round around I don't
really want that to happen so you can
prune roots it's got to be a little bit
careful with it that's all don't go to
hammer and tong so I'm just going to
knock this one just back to there
alright so just a little bit more even
I have pruned it back it was quite long
when I pick it up and I've just knocked
it back a bit I might even just take it
back a little bit more
and then we should be right all right so
I've got my pot now I've got some soil
here it's just a mixture of some potting
mix some regular garden soil mix there
isn't a straw that I hadn't had it
clipped the shapes I got manure and
everything through it so it should be
pretty right with that so we'll put a
bit in first all right like so just let
me sit up now if you get a root system
on something that kind of pans out just
build a little mound in the dirt and fit
that on top and then backfill it from
they say don't get any air pockets or
anything like that all right it's a nice
and central make sure the root system is
nice and spread out this one's a bit
one-sided but we should be right now
this is the
top dresser
spread it around don't come too far up
on it just above the root system about
an inch they want to bury it too far on
the trunk or else it can rot now which
pot you can just give it a good stamp
just push down nice and light even all
right there we go
easy now even though it is winter all
chuckle a little bit of food on there
the pea straw in the mix with the soil
should give it a good source of nitrogen
as well so like I said this pot should
be ample for one season and I'll repot
it well actually I'll try and plant it
in the next season as well too so I'll
come back over some on the next few
months I'll show you how to grow scummy
you can see it is quite spindly so it
will just stand out and gooseberries are
quite bitter or sour as raw like just
straight from the tree but they really
get transformed quite nicely through
cooking so like rhubarb and hold the
berries and things like that you cook
them with a few other things bit of
sugar and what-have-you they're clearly
quite nice hopefully I'll be able to get
a few gooseberries in the next couple of
seasons to and from still on here go
over some recipes to our last thing I
wanna do is just give it a water in
and that's about it roll down
give it a good soak cool now when you
place your group through to if you're
going to put it somewhere in particular
make sure it gets a lot of sunlight but
try and keep it out of the really hot
afternoon sunlight so in Australia or
anywhere around between 3 & 6 p.m.
during summer that's pretty much the
hottest part of the day they can burn
and when they're fruiting they need a
good amount of water to so they can keep
producing fruit to keep the water up to
it I'll put this this is because it's in
a pots easy from and move around
obviously it's all keeping in spot where
it's going to get pretty much sunlight
from in the morning until early
afternoon and we'll see here we go cool
that's it
any questions your about groceries give
me a yell but they're really easy to get
especially during winter during bare
rooted season you can get all kinds of
berries and stuff like that I'm actually
bought some blackberries too which I'll
go over potting up as well cool all
right
thanks for watching any question just
give me a like or so